Trying to decide if everyone's just
confused or if I just nailed it.
I can never tell.
Probably somewhere in the middle of
both confused and nail, I can nail
it in a confusing way or I'm confusingly
nailed, I don't know, something like that.
>> Could you repeat?
I think you said about line 14 the return,
I think you said something like the return
statement on us effect gets called
when we remove the elements or
something like I can do.
>> Yeah.
Alright, so on this page when you
click adopt Luna it's gonna pop
up a modal is like do you
wanna adopt Luna, right?
It's like a confirmation modal, right?
When you click OK,
the modal should go away, right?
So we have to remove that DOM element that
we put there otherwise it's just gonna
keep putting more and more DOM elements
there and or not removing it, right?
So we need something that's gonna say as
soon as this gets removed from my react
applicant, as soon as you stop rendering
this model, how do I clean myself up?
The way you do that is whatever function,
again,
this has to be a function that
you return in your effect.
Does that make sense?
There's a cleanup function.
>> Yeah, I guess I'm just missing,
how or where does that get called but
it's kind of a deep down.
>> So
basically you're scheduling this to run.
Whatever function you return in effect
gets scheduled to be run by react
whenever this function
gets removed from the DOM.
>> And I think the thing that I'm
missing is just like for example,
the function to remove this thing
from the DOM, we haven't made yet.
I'm assuming because we haven't even
gotten to getting to a model to then truly
displaying it.
>> Let's go do that and if you're still
confused by let's talk about it then.
But basically whenever you stop rendering,
right, so
let's look it like our error boundary for
just a second.
At some point you're gonna render this and
then you're gonna stop rendering it,
right, that h2 gets destroyed, right?
So you render it when
you have an error and
then you stop rendering it later, right?
So you want some function to be able to
be called whenever you stop rendering
something, and
you basically you're telling react,
this is what I need to
do to remove myself.
>> I guess to be specific, the thing
I'm confused about is how do we tell or
what tells react to stop
rendering a given element?
>> We stopped returning it.
>> Stop returning.
>> Because it keeps track of like,
this is what the DOM used to look like,
this is what the DOM
was about to look like.
It does a diff, and then it says, okay,
all that stuff that's no longer there
we're going to remove it, right?
It's called the virtual DOM,
I guess I haven't talked about the virtual
DOM at all during this course.
It's good because you'd never have to
know or care that it even exists but
basically react to doing a diff
underneath the hood and it's going to
remove stuff that's no longer there and
keep stuff that is still there.
It's kind of implicit I suppose,
right, but
whenever you stop returning
something it'll just stop rendering.
>> Something about it's going over
my head but thank you very much.
>> Okay [LAUGH] maybe it'll make
sense here in just a second.
If use ref is confusing to you, I go into
it further in intermediate react, yeah.
>> So return function in a use effect
equivalent to a component did unmount?
>> Yeah.
I'm sure there's some nuanced difference
there in terms of like the scheduling of
it but functionally is the same.
Okay, so let's go to details and
use our modal.
We're going to import modal from ./modal.
Okay, we're gonna have a thing
here called show modal.
Well, yeah, we'll not show it first.
We're gonna make a function
here to toggle the modal.
So we're gonna say toggler modal,
I can spell, that's fine.
And it's just gonna be a function that
all it's gonna do is call this .setstate.
ShowModal, and
it's gonna be the opposite of
whatever showModal currently is,
so this.state.showModal.
So what this function does
whenever you call it,
we're using an arrow function, right?
So to make sure that this
year is always correct.
If modal is true, make it false,
if it's false, make it true.
So just toggling that back and forth.
Okay, let's pull showModal
out of our state.
Okay, down here on our button we're gonna
give it an onClick finally
to be this.showModal
And then below the description,
we're gonna add our show modal logic.
So we're gonna put this
little bit of logic here.
If we're gonna show the modal then we're
gonna put our modal component here and
we're gonna put whatever we want
to display inside of that modal.
So we're gonna put a div,
we're gonna put like an h1,
would you like to adopt name.
Here we're gonna put an a tag
because we're gonna link off site.
I'm just gonna send you to a real pet
adoption side of you and click Yes,
if you cannot adopt my dog I'm reiterating
that if in case there was an obvious,
she's a jerk but she's my jerk, pet-adopt.
This will just send you the pet finder.
Okay, and
if you click no then you're gonna
say we're just gonna close the modal,
this toggle modal.
Okay, so if show modal is true
the show this otherwisewe
just don't wanna show anything, right?
We want nothing to render inside of that.
So we're just gonna put null,
if you tell reactant render null
it just doesn't render anything.
So that's what the null is here.
All right, let me go make
sure that works really quick.
It doesn't, let's figure out why.
See that, this is what I did.
Put showmodal it's supposed
to be togglemodal.
Now that styling little dirty, but
it looks like it's working just fine.
I don't know what I did there.
Button on click buttons,
I didn't put buttons, did I?
Yeah, you're supposed
to put buttons there.
Inside of a div, okay.
So here, put a tag in this in here and
we'll say className equals buttons.
There you go.
Now it looks nice.
Okay.
So let's walk through kind
of what happens here.
The user clicks the button,
I would like to adopt Luna, right?
It calls the togglemodal button.
This says set state to be
the opposite of what it currently is.
So if it's true, or sorry if it's false,
which it is right now,
it's gonna set that to true, right?
When you call set state or
kicks off a rerender.
So it does that, calls render again, this
time showModal is true whereas before it
was false and was just showing no,
which is nothing.
This time t's true.
It's gonna use our modal function,
our modal component and
it's gonna render everything
that we put inside of here,
right, inside of its modal, okay?
And so that's how we get this which is
over everything let's actually take a look
at the DOM.
Notice most of our app is here instead
of route right, the header, the details,
all that stuff is living inside of route
which is where our app is being rendered.
We have modal here though.
Which has div soup and an h1 here and
a div and like our age and
stuff like that, but it's being rendered
outside of the normal DOM right?
It's being rendered in different places,
despite the fact that the component
is all living in one spot.
So let me explain to you why I think
this is even cooler than you might think
it be already.
One, I am referencing state directly
from this component, right?
So I don't have to use like Redux
to like message the name over and
which URL to go to.
I get to like render it contextually,
right,
with all the information that I
already have from the state here.
So one, that's very cool.
Two, something else that you wouldn't
necessarily expect, if I fire
an event here, so let's say I have some
sort of, well, let's let's do this.
Just.
Unclick E console.Log e.
Is it just getting mad at me for ES lint?
Yeah, I think this should work.
So, notice that I clicked somewhere
on here and event bubbling, right,
that react is still lets you do event
bubbling even though I don't typically
recommend it normally you don't need to.
Anyway, whatever, it's fine, you can use
event bubbling it's available to you.
Now, event bubbling should not
work on this modal, right,
because it lives in
a different part of the DOM so
therefore it should bubble
through a different track.
But this because this is reactional this
in the same react tree, if I click on
this, I still get event bubbling
despite the fact that this is here and
this is rendering to
a different part of the DOM.
That's wild, right?
Cuz it's bubbling through like a portal,
right?
I think it's kind of cool.
The reason why that works is despite the
fact that this lives in different part of
the DOM tree,
it lives in the same React tree.
And we're not dealing with the DOM
we're dealing with the React synthetic
event system.
So this is actually going
through a different tree,
despite the fact that they
render in different places.
I don't know why that
would ever be useful.
[LAUGH] I'm just
technologically impressed by it.
Okay, so
as soon as I click adopt on Luna here,
I click No, and it goes away.
Right, because here I'm saying
toggle modal again, at that point,
it arrives back to here.
And it removes i from that, right, which
is what the modal code that we wrote did.
So, I think if you remove this,
so let's just remove that.
And we refreshed and we clicked the adopt,
I just don't think it would go away fully.
It wouldn't, right?
Because nothing's removing that DOM,
right?
All the React stuff is going away, right?
But the actual component there is not,
right, so
that's what this does is this removes
the final div from that container.
So now if we go back and
try it again and we dropped Luna, no,
it fully goes away because that last data
is being fully removed from the DOM.
And yes, if you click, yes, it hopefully
it should take you to pet finder.
Okay, this is about the most advanced
thing that I can teach you in react in
terms of like,
things conceivably you might need to use.
There's a bunch of like more
advanced stuff to do in react but
it's almost all for like library authors.
So like if you're writing like styled
components or a motion or something like
that, they have some additional
lower level hooks that you can use.
You almost never need to use them.
But ref can be useful sometimes,
portals can be useful, maybe a handful of
other things, but pretty much everything
else you don't have to worry about.
>> I have a question about
the rendering of the modal, but
I'm not exactly sure how to word it.
But it has to.
>> Just go for it.
>> It has to do with
the cleanup that we're doing.
I know we're using that use
effect to destroy it but
we get that like split second where
we clear out the content in React and
then we destroy the actual child and
the DOM.
why do we need to clear out that content?
Couldn't we just destroy the child and
the DOM?
Does that kind of make sense?
>> I think so.
So when you simply unrender the modal,
why do you have to go one step further and
delete the parent element?
>> I think so.
>> Basically,
we have to hand something to react as
like you can render into this, right?
That's what this create portal does is
we're saying this Lref.current which is
this div that we create and
then later destroy, right?
We're handing this to react was like
here's your place to render, right?
So we have to create one so
that later we can render into it.
And then later when we go back to unrender
that modal we have to then destroy it or
we end up with that problem where you saw
where the outer most diff doesn't go away.
But it's basically creating a container
for reactors like here's your safe place,
and then you just burn
the safe place to the ground.
I'm mixing analogies here, but
it's necessary technical constraint,
it's a weird API.
I'm gonna be the first
one to tell you that but
that's where they found that they could do
it that was like performance and useful.
I don't know if I have a better
answer than that, but good question.
For refs,
let's say you work at a company and
has like a bunch of legacy infrastructure
that was all built in jQuery,
right, I've worked at
several companies like that.
I had to write connecting
layers between react and
jQuery to get take react state and
somehow pass it into like a jQuery plugin.
So I imagine some of you unfortunately
will probably have to do that or
like when you're migrating between a
legacy Angular application to a new React
application, you have to
do some sort of interrupt.
Ref, so your best friend.
So basically what you can do is you
can have your react element wrap like
a angular mini app, right?
And you can use a ref to reference a DOM
element that you can tell angular or
backbone or jQuery to render into, right?
And then you can pass data from your
React application into whatever
DOM elements that you have created for
Angular or whatever or jQuery, right?
So this kind of pattern you probably
wouldn't even use a portal, right, but
you'd be using refs, right?
So I won't get too much more into it
than that but just know that refs
are super useful for interoperability
between react and other libraries.
Definitely never do that on purpose,
right?
But sometimes we it's necessary for
interoperability between like
in migration kind of situations.
Yeah, Mark.
>> What about being able
to click outside the modal?
>> Yeah, good question.
And that stuff you would
all handle here in modal,
I kind of kept modal this
most simple possible.
I guess what you would do
is you'd pass into modal,
you could pass in like
the Togglemodal function.
Let's just see if I can
do it really quick.
And here, you pass into your modal.
Sorry, not here it's in details.
ToggleModal equals don't, stop it.
Okay, and so now here inside of modal,
I now have this function that I got for
my parent, that allows me to toggle
the modal whenever I need to
So here what I would have to do is have to
like restructure the CSS in such that, if
I could make that a React component that
I could click on and therefore remove.
I don't think this is gonna work.
We'll see what happens.
So it's not this it's just Togglemodal.
Yeah, so you'd have to make,
like right now I'm using that
outermost div that we're adding and
removing to the DOM and that's what
I'm rendering with the black there.
I'd have to like, make one more layer on
top of that so that I could actually make
this black area clickable and
then I could say this .Togglemodal.
So, I would pass in a event handler
from the parent into the child and
then I would do it that way.
That's how you would do it.
But I don't wanna make you wait for
ten minutes while I figure out my
damn CSS, no one wants to watch.
That is not entertaining TV.